A Ballade poem should have three stanzas and an envoy/ envoi.

The rhyming pattern for the stanzas is ababbcbC.

The rhyming pattern for the envoy is bcbC.


What is a Cinquain?

A cinquain poem is a verse of five lines that do not rhyme. The cinquain poem was created by Adelaide Crapsey.
What is the structure of a cinquain?

A cinquain consists of five unrhymed lines.

Each line has a set number of syllables see below:

Line 1: 2 syllables
Line 2: 4 syllables
Line 3: 6 syllables
Line 4: 8 syllables
Line 5: 2 syllables
An example of a Cinquain Poem

My mum (2 syllables)
Is so caring (4 syllables)
She is always helpful (6 syllables)
She is so beautiful and kind (8 syllables)
Love you. (2 syllables) 



What is a Kyirelle Poem?

A Kyrielle poem is structured so that all the lines have eight syllables and each stanza of four lines ends in a refrain. It takes on a rhythmical form very much like a rhyming couplet.
What is the structure of a Kyirelle Poem?

A Kyrielle poem is made up of 4 lined stanzas of eight syllables each. The capital being the refrain:

aabB  
ccbB
ddbB
eebB
An example of a Kyrielle Poem
Pollution
Pollution rising in the sky,       	a8
People wear masks as they walk by, 	a8
It's about time to turn the bend, 	b8
For all this pollution to end.. 	B8
  	 
Animals are losing their homes, 	c8
To make way for buildings with domes, 	c8
What message do we have to send, 	b8
For all this pollution to end.     	B8
  	 
We're all guilty we must confess, 	d8
Guilty of making such a mess, 	d8
It's time for action, find a friend, 	b8
For all this pollution to end.     	B8
  	 
If we don't act the world won't last, 	e8
Breathing fresh air will have long passed, 	e8
This is the message that I send,        	b8
For all this pollution to end.     	B8

An Ottava Rima is an Italian poem made up of eight lines that rhyme. Each line consists of eleven syllables.
The structure of an Ottava Rima Poem

An Ottava Rima poem is made up of an octave with the rhyme pattern

ab
ab
ab
cc 

A tanka poem is a Japanese poem which can also be known as a waka or uta. A tanka poem is similar to a haiku but has two additional lines.
What is the Structure of a Tanka Poem?

A tanka consists of 5 lines and 31 syllables.

Each line has a set number of syllables see below:

Line 1 – 5 syllables
Line 2 – 7 syllables
Line 3 – 5 syllables
Line 4 – 7 syllables
Line 5 – 7 syllables
An Example of a Tanka Poem<

(5) I love my kitten.
(7) She is so little and cute.
(5) She has a pink tongue,
(7) And lots of long whiskers too.
(7) She purrs when I stroke her back. 



The poetic form of the tetractys is a poem with only five lines. Each line adds another syllable until the last line which has ten.
What is the Stucture of a Tetractys?

A tetractys consists of 5 lines, each line has a set number of syllables see below:

Line 1 – 1 syllable
Line 2 – 2 syllables
Line 3 – 3 syllables
Line 4 – 4 syllables
Line 5 – 10 syllables 



What is a Blank Verse Poem?

A blank verse is a poem with no rhyme but does have iambic pentameter. This means it consists of lines of five feet, each foot being iambic, meaning two syllables long, one stressed followed by an unstressed.

When a diamante poem is written it takes on the shape of a diamond.
The Structure of a Diamante Poem

A diamante poem is made up of 7 lines using a set structure:... more!

What is a Limerick?

A limerick is often a funny poem with a strong beat. Limericks are very light hearted poems and can sometimes be utter nonsense. They are great for kids to both read and write as they are short and funny.
The Structure of a Limerick Poem

A Limerick consists of five lines.

The first line of a limerick poem usually begins with 'There was a....' and ends with a name, person or place.

The last line of a limerick is normally a little farfetched or unusual.

A limerick should have a rhyme scheme of aabba:

This means lines 1,2 and 5 rhyme and lines 3 and 4 rhyme.

Also, lines 1,2 and 5 should have 7 – 10 syllables and lines 3 and 4 should have 5 – 7 syllables.

A Rondeau is a short poem consisting of fifteen lines that have two rhymes throughout. The first few words or phrase from the first line are repeated twice in the poem as a refrain.

Shakespearean sonnet + abba abba cdecde - Italian 

A terza rima is an Italian form of poetry first used by Dante Alighieri.

A terza rima consists of stanzas of three lines (or tercets) usually in iambic pentameter. It follows an interlocking rhyming scheme, or chain rhyme. This is where the middle of each stanza rhymes with the first and last line of the following stanza. There is no set length to this form, as long as it follows the pattern as follows:

ABA
BCB
CDC
DED

With the last stanza as a couplet rhyming with the middle line of the previous stanza. In this case, EE. 


Welcome to Young Writers' free Poetry Glossary
What is a Triolet Poem?

A Triolet is a poem of fixed rhythmical form, with repeated lines. It is made up of eight lines with a set rhyming scheme.
The Structure of a Triolet Poem

A Triolet consists of eight lines, the rhyming scheme is:

AB, aA, abAB